# Computational-Intelligence-Statistical-Learning
This project was implemented as part of the postgraduate studies in Computational Intelligence and Digital Media. The objectives were as follows: the creation of Support Vector Machines (SVMs) and their training using various kernels, as well as the comparison of the SVM results with models such as K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) and Nearest Centroid Classifiers (NCCs). Subsequently, dimensionality reduction was implemented based on spectral graph analysis or sample similarities (e.g., graph embedding, LPP, LLE, IsoMAP, tSNE, etc.) into 2 dimensions. The data reduced to 2 dimensions and then clustered using spectral clustering, and the clusters were visualized with different colors. These methods were trained, tested, and compared on two different problems (two different datasets). Specifically, for the clustering, we were interested in observing the behavior of the algorithm with different numbers of clusters, i.e., whether it successfully identified clusters composed of elements from a single class. Finally, the data had to be classified based on the centers found during the clustering phase.

The datasets that were used are as follows: MNIST and Microbes. The MNIST dataset is a large collection of handwritten digits and commonly used for training and testing in the field of machine learning. It contains 70,000 grayscale images of digits (0-9), each of 28x28 pixels, along with corresponding labels indicating the digit represented in each image. The dataset is widely used for benchmarking classification algorithms and can be easily found online. The microbes dataset was take from Kaggle. It is a collection of data containing 30,527 entries from ten different microorganisms. Each entry is characterized by 25 features and a class label that specifies the name of the microorganism.

